docs/tremor-script/recipes.md, before:

This document provides a few recipes for common patterns in tremor script. Please not however that it neither is exhaustive nor should those patterns considered the 'only way' to perform certain tasks.



## Extracting a raw message

If the event is a unstructured / raw message parsing it can be tricky since we can not match over a string. The following code offers a simple solution to it:

```tremor
# event = "John Doe"

let event =  match {"message": event} of
  case r = %{ message ~= dissect|%{first} %{last}| } => r.message
  default => drop
end;
# event = {"first" : "John", "last": "Doe"}
```



## Appending to an array

When appending to an array we can use the `array::push` function

```tremor
# event = {"key": "value", "tags": ["tag1"]}
let event.tags = array::push(event.tags, "tag2");
# event = {"key": "value", "tags": ["tag1", "tag2"]}
```



## Validating over extracted data

Sometimes we want to validate over extracted data without forcing the extraction to be a regular expression. For simple validations like the one below this pattern can be used.

```tremor
match event of
  # ...
  case r = %{message ~= dissect|%{log_level} %{log_timestamp}: %{logger}: %{message}|} when array::contains(["ERROR", "WARN", "INFO", "DEBUG"], result.message.log_level) => let event = merge event of r.message end
  # ...
end
```

Here we extract the `log_level`  and validate of that the it is one of `ERROR`, `WARN`, `INFO` or `DEBUG` by moving the check into the when guard we don't need to use a regular expression for this validation instead can use array membership.



## Replacing a field with an extraction

When extracting a field to merge with with the event and wanting to remove  the extracted field we can take advantage of the `merge` expressions behaviour that it will treat `null` in merged objects as a command to delete the data by setting the field to replace to `null` before merging.

```tremor
# event = %{"message": "John Doe"}
let event = merge event of match event of
  case r = %{message ~= dissect|%{first} %{last}| } => let r = r.message, let r.message = null, r
  default => {}
end;
# event = %{"first": "John", "last": "Doe"}
```



## No effect on non matching case

If we use merge with match we can make the `default` case to have no effect by using `{}`. This is possible since `merge` on `{}` is a identity function.

```tremor
# event = %{"message": "John Doe"}
let event = merge event of match event of
  case r = %{message ~= dissect|%{first} %{midle} %{last}| } => let r = r.message, let r.message = null, r
  default => {}
end;
# event = %{"message": "John Doe"}
```



## Boolean decisions

To make boolean decisions we can match on `true` or `false`. 

```tremor
match type::is_object(event) of
  case true => let event_type = "object"
  case false => let event_type = "other"
end
```



## Diverting an event to a different channel

By default the tremor-script operator forwards all events that are not dropped to the `out` channel for further processing. However it is possible to route events to different channels using the `emit` keyword. This allows, for example, diverting certain events to reserve bandwidth for a more important subset.

```tremor
match event.importance of
  case "high" => emit # this is the same as emit event => "out"
  case "medium" => emit event => "divert"
  default => drop # deletes the event
end
```



## The 'null default'

When the result of a match statement isn't needed - as in we use it purely for it's side effects - and we want the `default` to have no effect we can simply use `null` here.

```tremor
match event of
  case %{ tags ~= ["high-priority"]} => let event.importance = "high"
  default => null
end
```



## Testing against the type of a field

Sometimes we want to know if a field has a certain type. The `type` module provides help here but common types such as `record` or `array` can be checked using their patterns.

```tremor
match event of
  case %{field ~= %{}} => emit "event.field is a record"
  case %{field ~= %[]} => emit "event.field is a array"
  case %{} when type::is_record(event.field) => emit "event.field is a record"
  case %{} when type::is_array(event.field) => emit "event.field is a array"
  case %{} when type::is_number(event.field) => emit "event.field is a number (float or integer)"
  case %{} when type::is_integer(event.field) => emit "event.field is an integer"
  case %{} when type::is_float(event.field) => emit "event.field is a float"
  case %{} when type::is_null(event.field) => emit "event.field is null (but set)"
  case %{absent field} => emit "event.field is not set"
  # ...
end
```

## Routing messages

Tremor script can be used to route messages by combining the `emit` feature and the fact that the tremor runtime operator allows different outputs.

To route to doing a  `blue` / `green` split based on a field in a record we could use the following code:



```
match event of
  case %{key == "blue"} => emit event => "blue"
  case %{key == "green"} => emit event => "green"
  default => drop
end
```



And then in the pipeline configuration instead use parts such as:

```yaml

pipeline:
  - id: one
    outputs:
      - blue
      - green
    # ...
    links:
     script/blue: ["blue"]
     script/green: ["green"]     
```

Commit message:

Improvements for tremor script's random function
* Seed random number generation with event's ingestion time
* Move function to random namespace and rename existing funtion
* Simple test for the function
* Docs on function usage and event drop recipe based on this

Had to downgrade rand crate to 0.6.5 (from 0.7.0) becasue of
compilation issues with newer version (when using seeded RNG):
https://github.com/rust-random/rand/issues/818

docs/tremor-script/recipes.md, after:

This document provides a few recipes for common patterns in tremor script. Please note however that it neither is exhaustive nor should those patterns considered the 'only way' to perform certain tasks.



## Extracting a raw message

If the event is a unstructured / raw message parsing it can be tricky since we can not match over a string. The following code offers a simple solution to it:

```tremor
# event = "John Doe"

let event =  match {"message": event} of
  case r = %{ message ~= dissect|%{first} %{last}| } => r.message
  default => drop
end;
# event = {"first" : "John", "last": "Doe"}
```



## Appending to an array

When appending to an array we can use the `array::push` function

```tremor
# event = {"key": "value", "tags": ["tag1"]}
let event.tags = array::push(event.tags, "tag2");
# event = {"key": "value", "tags": ["tag1", "tag2"]}
```



## Validating over extracted data

Sometimes we want to validate over extracted data without forcing the extraction to be a regular expression. For simple validations like the one below this pattern can be used.

```tremor
match event of
  # ...
  case r = %{message ~= dissect|%{log_level} %{log_timestamp}: %{logger}: %{message}|} when array::contains(["ERROR", "WARN", "INFO", "DEBUG"], result.message.log_level) => let event = merge event of r.message end
  # ...
end
```

Here we extract the `log_level`  and validate of that the it is one of `ERROR`, `WARN`, `INFO` or `DEBUG` by moving the check into the when guard we don't need to use a regular expression for this validation instead can use array membership.



## Replacing a field with an extraction

When extracting a field to merge with with the event and wanting to remove  the extracted field we can take advantage of the `merge` expressions behaviour that it will treat `null` in merged objects as a command to delete the data by setting the field to replace to `null` before merging.

```tremor
# event = %{"message": "John Doe"}
let event = merge event of match event of
  case r = %{message ~= dissect|%{first} %{last}| } => let r = r.message, let r.message = null, r
  default => {}
end;
# event = %{"first": "John", "last": "Doe"}
```



## No effect on non matching case

If we use merge with match we can make the `default` case to have no effect by using `{}`. This is possible since `merge` on `{}` is a identity function.

```tremor
# event = %{"message": "John Doe"}
let event = merge event of match event of
  case r = %{message ~= dissect|%{first} %{midle} %{last}| } => let r = r.message, let r.message = null, r
  default => {}
end;
# event = %{"message": "John Doe"}
```



## Boolean decisions

To make boolean decisions we can match on `true` or `false`.

```tremor
match type::is_object(event) of
  case true => let event_type = "object"
  case false => let event_type = "other"
end
```



## Diverting an event to a different channel

By default the tremor-script operator forwards all events that are not dropped to the `out` channel for further processing. However it is possible to route events to different channels using the `emit` keyword. This allows, for example, diverting certain events to reserve bandwidth for a more important subset.

```tremor
match event.importance of
  case "high" => emit # this is the same as emit event => "out"
  case "medium" => emit event => "divert"
  default => drop # deletes the event
end
```



## The 'null default'

When the result of a match statement isn't needed - as in we use it purely for it's side effects - and we want the `default` to have no effect we can simply use `null` here.

```tremor
match event of
  case %{ tags ~= ["high-priority"]} => let event.importance = "high"
  default => null
end
```



## Testing against the type of a field

Sometimes we want to know if a field has a certain type. The `type` module provides help here but common types such as `record` or `array` can be checked using their patterns.

```tremor
match event of
  case %{field ~= %{}} => emit "event.field is a record"
  case %{field ~= %[]} => emit "event.field is a array"
  case %{} when type::is_record(event.field) => emit "event.field is a record"
  case %{} when type::is_array(event.field) => emit "event.field is a array"
  case %{} when type::is_number(event.field) => emit "event.field is a number (float or integer)"
  case %{} when type::is_integer(event.field) => emit "event.field is an integer"
  case %{} when type::is_float(event.field) => emit "event.field is a float"
  case %{} when type::is_null(event.field) => emit "event.field is null (but set)"
  case %{absent field} => emit "event.field is not set"
  # ...
end
```

## Routing messages

Tremor script can be used to route messages by combining the `emit` feature and the fact that the tremor runtime operator allows different outputs.

To route to doing a  `blue` / `green` split based on a field in a record we could use the following code:



```
match event of
  case %{key == "blue"} => emit event => "blue"
  case %{key == "green"} => emit event => "green"
  default => drop
end
```



And then in the pipeline configuration instead use parts such as:

```yaml

pipeline:
  - id: one
    outputs:
      - blue
      - green
    # ...
    links:
     script/blue: ["blue"]
     script/green: ["green"]
```


## Percentage drops of events

To drop a percentage of all events, functions in the [random](functions/random.md) module can be used.

We generate a random number in a range and based on the outcome, we decide whether we want to drop an event or not. Example:

```tremor
# drop 50% of the events
match random::integer(0, 100) < 50 of
  case true => drop
  default => null
end
```

Most of the time, we want to do this only for certain matching events (as opposed to all events).

```tremor
let random_number = random::integer(0, 100);
match event of
  case %{key == "blue"} when random_number < 25 => drop   # drop 25% of blue events
  case %{key == "yellow"} when random_number < 75 => drop # drop 75% of yellow events
  case %{key == "red"} => drop                            # drop 100% of red events
  default => null                                         # drop 0% of other events
end
```
