docs/tremor-script/functions/string.md, before:

# The `string` namespace

The string module contains functions that primarily work with strings.

### string::format(format, arg, …) -> string

The placeholder `{}` is replaced by the arguments in the list in order.

```
string::format("the {} is {}.", "meaning of life", 42)
```

would result in the string `"the meaning of life is 42"`.

To use `{` or `}` as string literals in your format string, it needs to be escapedby adding another parenthesis of the same type.

```
string::format("{{ this is a string format in parenthesis }}")
```

this will output: 
```
{ this is a string format in parenthesis }
```

### string::is_empty(input) -> bool

Returns if the `input` string is empty or not.

### string::len(input) -> int

Returns the length of the `input` string (counted as utf8 characters not bytes!).

### string::replace(input, from, to) -> string

Replaces all occurrences of `from` in `Input` to `to`.

### string::trim(input) -> string

Trims whitespaces both at the start and end of the `input` string.

### string::trim_start(input) -> string

Trims whitespaces both at the start of the `input` string.

### string::trim_end(input) -> string

Trims whitespaces both at the end of the `input` string.

### string::lowercase(input) -> string

Turns all characters in the `input` string to lower case.

### string::uppercase(input) -> string

Turns all characters in the `input` string to upper case.

### string::capitalize(input) -> string

Turns the first character in the `input` string to upper case. This does not ignore leading non letters!

### string::split(input, seperator) -> array

Splits the `input` string at every occurrence of the `separator` string and turns the result in an array.

Commit message:

Improvements for tremor script's random function
* Seed random number generation with event's ingestion time
* Move function to random namespace and rename existing funtion
* Simple test for the function
* Docs on function usage and event drop recipe based on this

Had to downgrade rand crate to 0.6.5 (from 0.7.0) becasue of
compilation issues with newer version (when using seeded RNG):
https://github.com/rust-random/rand/issues/818

docs/tremor-script/functions/string.md, after:

# The `string` namespace

The string module contains functions that primarily work with strings.

### string::format(format, arg, …) -> string

The placeholder `{}` is replaced by the arguments in the list in order.

```
string::format("the {} is {}.", "meaning of life", 42)
```

would result in the string `"the meaning of life is 42"`.

To use `{` or `}` as string literals in your format string, it needs to be escapedby adding another parenthesis of the same type.

```
string::format("{{ this is a string format in parenthesis }}")
```

this will output:
```
{ this is a string format in parenthesis }
```

### string::is_empty(input) -> bool

Returns if the `input` string is empty or not.

### string::len(input) -> int

Returns the length of the `input` string (counted as utf8 characters not bytes!).

### string::replace(input, from, to) -> string

Replaces all occurrences of `from` in `Input` to `to`.

### string::trim(input) -> string

Trims whitespaces both at the start and end of the `input` string.

### string::trim_start(input) -> string

Trims whitespaces at the start of the `input` string.

### string::trim_end(input) -> string

Trims whitespaces at the end of the `input` string.

### string::lowercase(input) -> string

Turns all characters in the `input` string to lower case.

### string::uppercase(input) -> string

Turns all characters in the `input` string to upper case.

### string::capitalize(input) -> string

Turns the first character in the `input` string to upper case. This does not ignore leading non letters!

### string::substr(input, start, end) -> string

Get all characters from index `start` to `end-1`.

### string::split(input, separator) -> array

Splits the `input` string at every occurrence of the `separator` string and turns the result in an array.
