docs/tremor-script/extractors/regex.md, before:

# Regex (re)

The regex extractor extracts fields from data by parsing a regular expression provided by the user. It accepts a "perl-style regular expression"

Example:

```tremor
drop match { "test": "http://example.com/", "footle": "bar" } of
  case foo = %{ test ~= re|^http://.*/$|, footle == "bar" } => foo
  default => "ko"
end
```

The extractor is called by using the `~=` operator and specifying `re` as the extractor followed by regular expression after the pipe operator.

The following syntax is supported:

#### Matching one character:

```
.             any character except new line (includes new line with s flag)
\d            digit (\p{Nd})
\D            not digit
\pN           One-letter name Unicode character class
\p{Greek}     Unicode character class (general category or script)
\PN           Negated one-letter name Unicode character class
\P{Greek}     negated Unicode character class (general category or script)
```

### Character classes

```
[xyz]         A character class matching either x, y or z (union).
[^xyz]        A character class matching any character except x, y and z.
[a-z]         A character class matching any character in range a-z.
[[:alpha:]]   ASCII character class ([A-Za-z])
[[:^alpha:]]  Negated ASCII character class ([^A-Za-z])
[x[^xyz]]     Nested/grouping character class (matching any character except y and z)
[a-y&&xyz]    Intersection (matching x or y)
[0-9&&[^4]]   Subtraction using intersection and negation (matching 0-9 except 4)
[0-9--4]      Direct subtraction (matching 0-9 except 4)
[a-g~~b-h]    Symmetric difference (matching `a` and `h` only)
[\[\]]        Escaping in character classes (matching [ or ])
```

Any named character class may appear inside a bracketed `[...]` character class. For example, `[\p{Greek}[:digit:]]`matches any Greek or ASCII digit. `[\p{Greek}&&\pL]` matches Greek letters.

Precedence in character classes, from most binding to least:

1. Ranges: `a-cd` == `[a-c]d`
2. Union: `ab&&bc` == `[ab]&&[bc]`
3. Intersection: `^a-z&&b` == `^[a-z&&b]`
4. Negation

#### Composites

```
xy    concatenation (x followed by y)
x|y   alternation (x or y, prefer x)
```

#### Repetitions

```
x*        zero or more of x (greedy)
x+        one or more of x (greedy)
x?        zero or one of x (greedy)
x*?       zero or more of x (ungreedy/lazy)
x+?       one or more of x (ungreedy/lazy)
x??       zero or one of x (ungreedy/lazy)
x{n,m}    at least n x and at most m x (greedy)
x{n,}     at least n x (greedy)
x{n}      exactly n x
x{n,m}?   at least n x and at most m x (ungreedy/lazy)
x{n,}?    at least n x (ungreedy/lazy)
x{n}?     exactly n x
```

#### Empty matches

```
^     the beginning of text (or start-of-line with multi-line mode)
$     the end of text (or end-of-line with multi-line mode)
\A    only the beginning of text (even with multi-line mode enabled)
\z    only the end of text (even with multi-line mode enabled)
\b    a Unicode word boundary (\w on one side and \W, \A, or \z on other)
\B    not a Unicode word boundary
```

#### Grouping and flags

```
(exp)          numbered capture group (indexed by opening parenthesis)
(?P<name>exp)  named (also numbered) capture group (allowed chars: [_0-9a-zA-Z])
(?:exp)        non-capturing group
(?flags)       set flags within current group
(?flags:exp)   set flags for exp (non-capturing)
```

Flags are each a single character. For example, `(?x)` sets the flag `x` and `(?-x)` clears the flag `x`. Multiple flags can be set or cleared at the same time: `(?xy)` sets both the `x` and `y` flags and `(?x-y)` sets the `x` flag and clears the `y` flag.

All flags are by default disabled unless stated otherwise. They are:

```
i     case-insensitive: letters match both upper and lower case
m     multi-line mode: ^ and $ match begin/end of line
s     allow . to match \n
U     swap the meaning of x* and x*?
u     Unicode support (enabled by default)
x     ignore whitespace and allow line comments (starting with `#`)
```

Commit message:

docs for dissect, cidr, base64, array, grok, influx, removed unwanted panic from tilde, improved examples for dissect

docs/tremor-script/extractors/regex.md, after:

# Regex (re)

The regex extractor extracts fields from data by parsing a regular expression provided by the user. It accepts a "perl-style regular expression"

## Predicate:

When used with `~`, the predicate passes if a valid regular expression is passed.

## Extraction:

If the predicate passes, the extractor returns the matched values from the target. Returns an error if the regex fails to match.

## Example:

```tremor
drop match { "test": "http://example.com/", "footle": "bar" } of
  case foo = %{ test ~= re|^http://.*/$|, footle == "bar" } => foo
  default => "ko"
end
```

The extractor is called by using the `~=` operator and specifying `re` as the extractor followed by regular expression after the pipe operator.

The following syntax is supported:

#### Matching one character:

```
.             any character except new line (includes new line with s flag)
\d            digit (\p{Nd})
\D            not digit
\pN           One-letter name Unicode character class
\p{Greek}     Unicode character class (general category or script)
\PN           Negated one-letter name Unicode character class
\P{Greek}     negated Unicode character class (general category or script)
```

### Character classes

```
[xyz]         A character class matching either x, y or z (union).
[^xyz]        A character class matching any character except x, y and z.
[a-z]         A character class matching any character in range a-z.
[[:alpha:]]   ASCII character class ([A-Za-z])
[[:^alpha:]]  Negated ASCII character class ([^A-Za-z])
[x[^xyz]]     Nested/grouping character class (matching any character except y and z)
[a-y&&xyz]    Intersection (matching x or y)
[0-9&&[^4]]   Subtraction using intersection and negation (matching 0-9 except 4)
[0-9--4]      Direct subtraction (matching 0-9 except 4)
[a-g~~b-h]    Symmetric difference (matching `a` and `h` only)
[\[\]]        Escaping in character classes (matching [ or ])
```

Any named character class may appear inside a bracketed `[...]` character class. For example, `[\p{Greek}[:digit:]]`matches any Greek or ASCII digit. `[\p{Greek}&&\pL]` matches Greek letters.

Precedence in character classes, from most binding to least:

1. Ranges: `a-cd` == `[a-c]d`
2. Union: `ab&&bc` == `[ab]&&[bc]`
3. Intersection: `^a-z&&b` == `^[a-z&&b]`
4. Negation

#### Composites

```
xy    concatenation (x followed by y)
x|y   alternation (x or y, prefer x)
```

#### Repetitions

```
x*        zero or more of x (greedy)
x+        one or more of x (greedy)
x?        zero or one of x (greedy)
x*?       zero or more of x (ungreedy/lazy)
x+?       one or more of x (ungreedy/lazy)
x??       zero or one of x (ungreedy/lazy)
x{n,m}    at least n x and at most m x (greedy)
x{n,}     at least n x (greedy)
x{n}      exactly n x
x{n,m}?   at least n x and at most m x (ungreedy/lazy)
x{n,}?    at least n x (ungreedy/lazy)
x{n}?     exactly n x
```

#### Empty matches

```
^     the beginning of text (or start-of-line with multi-line mode)
$     the end of text (or end-of-line with multi-line mode)
\A    only the beginning of text (even with multi-line mode enabled)
\z    only the end of text (even with multi-line mode enabled)
\b    a Unicode word boundary (\w on one side and \W, \A, or \z on other)
\B    not a Unicode word boundary
```

#### Grouping and flags

```
(exp)          numbered capture group (indexed by opening parenthesis)
(?P<name>exp)  named (also numbered) capture group (allowed chars: [_0-9a-zA-Z])
(?:exp)        non-capturing group
(?flags)       set flags within current group
(?flags:exp)   set flags for exp (non-capturing)
```

Flags are each a single character. For example, `(?x)` sets the flag `x` and `(?-x)` clears the flag `x`. Multiple flags can be set or cleared at the same time: `(?xy)` sets both the `x` and `y` flags and `(?x-y)` sets the `x` flag and clears the `y` flag.

All flags are by default disabled unless stated otherwise. They are:

```
i     case-insensitive: letters match both upper and lower case
m     multi-line mode: ^ and $ match begin/end of line
s     allow . to match \n
U     swap the meaning of x* and x*?
u     Unicode support (enabled by default)
x     ignore whitespace and allow line comments (starting with `#`)
```
